1. Difference between `const char *p` and `char * const p`?

`const char *a;` //the value of the char is const, not allowed to change value 
`*a = 'F';` //illegal: change the const char value 
`a = "Hi";` // legal 

`char* const a;` //the addr of the char is const, not allowed to change addr 
`*a = 'F';` //legal 
`a ="HI";` //illegal, change the addr that's supposed to be const.

2. What is the use of virtual destructors?

   Making base class destructor virtual guarantees that the object of derived class is destructed properly, i.e., both base class and derived class destructors are called.

3.

```c++
char *xyz()
  {
  char str[32];
  strcpy(str, "Hello there!");
  return (str);
  }

void main()
  {
    printf("%s", xyz());
  }
```

It will return a dangling pointer. A garbage value. 
As str variable is in stack which is accessible only in local function xyz(). 

We need to make static to return always hello there:

```c++
#include<stdio.h> 
#include<string.h> 

char *xyz() 
{ 
static char str[32]; 
strcpy(str,"Hello there!"); 
return(str); 
} 

void main() 
{ 
printf("%s",xyz()); 
}
```

4. Have you overloaded operator new? I said yes, than Y did u do that?

5. How will you overload << operator for output? Why you have to make it friend?

   Becoz, the leftmost operand in overloading << operator should be ostream& , while in member function the leftmost operand is implicitly *this pointer of class.

6. What are problems with shallow copy? 

   Problem: We have *two* objects both containing pointers to the same buffer. When one of them gets destroyed, it deletes the associated buffer for the data. Then we have a dangling pointer -- it's still trying to refer to the buffer, but the buffer no longer exists. When the second object gets destroyed, it'll try to free the same memory again -- but since it's already been freed, that leads to undefined behavior

   Using `copy constructor` to create an object by initializing it with an object of the same class, which has been created previously. 

7. What happen if I delete "this" in member function? Can you call member functions after doing this?

   You can `delete this;` but it's generally speaking an extremely bad idea, and once it's done, you cannot touch any member variables or member functions.

   **As long as you're careful, it's OK for an object to commit suicide (delete this).**

   Here's how I define "careful":

   - You must be absolutely 100% positively sure that this object was allocated via new (not by new[], nor by placement new, nor a local object on the stack, nor a global, nor a member of another object; but by plain ordinary new).
   - You must be absolutely 100% positively sure that your member function will be the last member function invoked on this object.
   - **You must be absolutely 100% positively sure that the rest of your member function (after the delete this line) doesn't touch any piece of this object (including calling any other member functions or touching any data members).**
   - You must be absolutely 100% positively sure that no one even touches the this pointer itself after the delete this line. In other words, you must not examine it, compare it with another pointer, compare it with NULL, print it, cast it, do anything with it.

8. You are given an array which consist of number between 0 to 5 digit range, write a function which will return true or false, if array can be divided into 2 half such that sum of the two half would be equal?

```java
public boolean canPartition(int[] nums) {
        int sum = 0;
        for (int n : nums) {
            sum += n;
        }
        if (sum % 2 != 0) return false;
        sum >>= 1;
        boolean[] dp = new boolean[sum + 1];
        dp[0] = true;
        for (int n : nums) {
            for (int j = sum; j >= n; j--) {
                dp[j] = dp[j] | dp[j - n];
            }
        }
        return dp[sum];
    }
```

9. Do u know STL (Standard Template Library),  tell me what kind of containers are available, complexity of each?

**Sequence Containers**

- std::**vector**, std::**deque**, std::**array**, std::**list**, std::**forward_list**, and std::**basic_string**

**Associative Containers**

- set, multiset, map, multimap

**Container Adapters**

- **stack**, **queue**, **priority queue**

10.  You are given a file, how will u find perticular string in the file? 

    Below is `KMP` algorithm

```java
public static String KMP(String text, String pattern) {
        int n = text.length(), m = pattern.length();
        int[] table = buildTable(m, pattern);
        int i = 0, j = 0;
        while (i < n) {
            if (pattern.charAt(j) == text.charAt(i)) {
                i++;
                j++;
                if (j == m) {
                    int l = i - 1, r = i;
                    while (l >= 0 && text.charAt(l) != ' ') l--;
                    while (r < n && text.charAt(r) != ' ') r++;
                    return text.substring(l + 1, r);
                }
            } else if (j > 0) j = table[j];
            else i++;
        }
        return "";
    }

    private static int[] buildTable(int m, String pat) {
        int[] table = new int[m];
        int j = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i < pat.length(); i++) {
            if (pat.charAt(i) == pat.charAt(j)) {
                table[i] = ++j;
            } else {
                while (j > 0 && pat.charAt(j) != pat.charAt(i)) {
                    j = table[j - 1];
                }
                if (pat.charAt(j) == pat.charAt(i)) {
                    table[i] = ++j;
                }
            }
        }
        return table;
    }
```

11.  You are given an array which contains either 1 or 0, and they are in sorted order Ex. a[] = {1,1 ,1 ,1 ,1, 0,0,0,0,0 }; How will you count # of 1's and 0's?

    Ans: Binary Search

12.  A class contains 2 float and 1 double, what will be size of object? Now that class contains 2 floats and static double what will be size? Reasons?

    Now it contains all static vars waht will be size? Why not zero?

Ans: 

**The C++ standard uses the word *byte* to mean "1 `char`", and not the usual meaning.**

Generally size of float is 4 bytes and size of double is 8 bytes. so Size of object will be 16 bytes. 
if a static double, then size will be 8 bytes because static variables are not allocated on stack. they are global for class. 
If all member variables are static then size will be 1 byte not zero because an object should have an address to show its existence....

13. What is optimization flag? Have u used it? What does it do?

Ans: Turning on optimization flags makes the compiler attempt to improve the performance and/or code size at the expense of compilation time and possibly the ability to debug the program.

14. What is Volatile keyword? What happen when u use it? (Expected Ans was compiler puts it into register and hence no optimization )

Ans:  http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4437527/why-do-we-use-volatile-keyword-in-c

Volatile variables tells the compiler that this variable has the tendency to change , may be changed from another file, so should not be optimized by putting such variables in cache. Whenever this variable is accessed to retrieve its value.It has to be accecesed freshly, There are higher chances that this variable might have been changed by some other process or hardware. 

15. What is core dump? Why would you get one? Who generates it?

Ans: Core dump is a binary file with the state (stack pointer, program counter, register values) of execution just before crashing. Some of the reasons for getting a core dump are violation of segments, sudden abort etc., The OS generates the core.

16. Explain your favorite project.
17. Questions about "public, protect and private" and "exception".

- **Public** : Everything that is aware of `Base` is also aware that `Base` contains `publicMember`.
- **Protected**: Only the children (and their children) are aware that `Base` contains `protectedMember`.
- **Private**: No one but `Base` is aware of `privateMember`.
- **Exception**: An exception is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. It's a response to an exceptional circumstance that arises while a program is running, such as an attempt to divide by zero.

```c++
class A 
{
public:
    int x;
protected:
    int y;
private:
    int z;
};

class B : public A
{
    // x is public
    // y is protected
    // z is not accessible from B
};

class C : protected A
{
    // x is protected
    // y is protected
    // z is not accessible from C
};

class D : private A    // 'private' is default for classes
{
    // x is private
    // y is private
    // z is not accessible from D
};
```

18. virtual function

A **virtual function** is a member **function** that you expect to be redefined in derived classes. When you refer to a derived class object using a pointer or a reference to the base class, you can call a **virtual function** for that object and execute the derived class's version of the **function**.

19. what is compiler? what is library? what is linker? what compiler did you use in your internship?

A **compiler** is a special program that processes statements written in a particular programming language and turns them into machine language or "code" that a computer's processor uses.

A **library** is a collection of code which you want to make available to a program or group of programs. It includes the *implementation* of a particular *interface* or set of interfaces. Header 

A **header file** is *generally* used to define an interface or set of interfaces within an application. Think of a header file as something which shows the external functionality of a program while omitting the technical implementation details.

When a program is compiled, the compiler converts the source file into object byte code. After the object file is created, the **linker** comes into play. A real program that does anything useful will need to reference other files.  The **linker** links your OBJ file with this standard library. The **linker** can also link your OBJ file with other OBJ files. The **Linker** works almost like a word processor's copy and paste. It "copies" out all the necessary functions that your program references and creates a single executable.

I used Swift as main language, so the compiler is **LLVM/Clang**.

20. C++ OO design questions, singleton design pattern, and multithreading

```c++
class S
{
    public:
        static S& getInstance()
        {
            static S    instance;
            return instance;
        }
    private:
        S() {}
        S(S const&);              // Don't Implement.
        void operator=(S const&); // Don't implement
 };
```

Return it as a reference seems much more logical!

You should never be able to free a **singleton** manually.

Use the **static** in a function method.
This guarantees that it is created and destroyed only once. It also gives you lazy initialization for free.



**Multithreading** is a specialized form of multitasking and a multitasking is the feature that allows your computer to run two or more programs concurrently. In general, there are two types of multitasking: process-based and thread-based.

There is following routine which we use to create a **POSIX** thread:

```
#include <pthread.h>
pthread_create (thread, attr, start_routine, arg) 

```

Here, **pthread_create** creates a new thread and makes it executable. This routine can be called any number of times from anywhere within your code.

21. The location of structs on the heap and stack, and also explaining if multithreading fits into processes or vice versa.

In a multi-threaded application, each thread will have its own stack. But, all the different threads will share the heap. Because the different threads share the heap in a multi-threaded application, this also means that there has to be some coordination between the threads so that they don’t try to access and manipulate the same piece(s) of memory in the heap at the same time.



 